eventually giving up but what if I told
you anyone can solve the Rubik's Cube
with one single algorithm I tested it
myself and it's really simple check it
out okay for starters let's see what a
3x3 cube consists of it has three main
parts center edge and corner to
understand how these algorithms work you
have to learn the Rubik's Cube lingo all
moves are written down in letters that
stand for one 90-degree cube rotation
are right L left you up d down F front
and be back an apostrophe means that the
layer should move counterclockwise by
90-degree no apostrophe means it goes 90
degrees clockwise when there's a number
next to the letter it stands for the
number of turns you should make in the
algorithm I'll be showing you today
you'll only work with the ones in this
yellow zone you can now pause the video
and practice the rotations so here's the
main algorithm for your right hand it'll
be far you are ' you apostrophe and once
again are you are apostrophe you
apostrophe
it's the exact opposite for your left
hand L apostrophe you ' l you and again
L apostrophe you apostrophe L you let's
see what that looks like in real life
right hand are you are apostrophe you
apostrophe and once again are you are '
you ' now left hand L apostrophe you ' L
you and again L apostrophe you
apostrophe L year before you continue
it's a good idea to pause the video and
practice until you can do all these
moves pretty much automatically it'll
help you later on
okay so you'll go through seven stages
in today's algorithm number one white
cross on the bottom number two the
bottom corners number three the middle
layer number four the yellow cross
number five the top layer number six the
top corners number seven the final goal
number one solve the white cross on the
bottom the task here is to put together
a white cross and align its edges with
the right colored Center on each side
here I'll mix it all up first now let's
get started to begin with you have to
put together this sequence that looks
kind of like a daisy
it's really easy and doesn't require any
special algorithms try it yourself then
rotate the top layer with the Daisy on
it
align the right colors of the layers
with the color of the center and rotate
this layer 180 degrees do the same thing
with the remaining whites
[Music]
and this is how you get a white cross at
the bottom number to solve the four
corner pieces on the bottom at this
stage you'll have to put the lower
corners of the cube in the right places
and the white side of the cube will be
solved here's where you'll use that are
you are ' you apostrophe algorithm for
your right hand rotate only the top
layer of the cube to find a corner
that's the same color as the Centers of
the other sides and use the algorithm
until the corner is in the right place
[Music]
do the same with the rest of the corners
at the end of this stage you should have
little upside down tees on all sides
ending at the centerpiece number three
solve the four edge pieces in the middle
layer at this stage you'll need to solve
the rest of the middle layer so that the
outer blocks are the same color as the
center in the first case the layer
you'll be working on is to the left on
the top of the target position you must
match it with the right color here's how
you can do it turn the upper part to the
left use the algorithm for the right
hand rotate the cube left use the
algorithm for the left hand in the
second case the layer you'll be working
on is to the right of the top of the
target position you must match it with a
corresponding color turn the upper part
to the right use the algorithm for the
left hand rotate the cube right use the
algorithm for the right hand repeat that
with all the sides and you're done
[Music]
number four solve the yellow edges on
the top layer first you put together a
yellow cross on the yellow side of the
cube if you don't see the yellow line
but only a random set of yellow edges
start doing the algorithm as soon as you
see the yellow line start doing the same
algorithm
and this is how you get across number
five solve the four edge pieces on the
top layer now we need to arrange the
edges of the yellow cross so that the
second color coincides with the color of
that side let's get started find one
edge that's already in place rotate the
top layer of the cube to align the edge
with the corresponding color it's
important that only one edge is matching
if two of the match you should use a
slightly modified algorithm to mix the
edges
[Music]
again only one edge should coincide in
color keep that one in front of you and
use the same algorithm until the
remaining edges get in the right
positions
[Music]
voila
number six orient the yellow corners on
the top layer at this stage the task is
to put the corners in place with the
appropriate colors of neighboring
centers you'll only need to move them
into place you're not solving them just
yet find the corner that's already in
place in this case it's even rotated
correctly but that's not important and
use a slightly modified algorithm until
the corners are in their places
[Music]
done number seven solve the yellow
corners on the top layer you're almost
done
all you have to do is solve the corners
rotate the cube so that the yellow side
is facing you you'll work with the
upper-right corner let's solve it corner
by corner don't rotate the cube and do
everything step by step a lot of people
make mistakes at this stage and have to
start all over so be careful use the
algorithm you already know in a slightly
modified order until the corner is
solved once you're done with one move to
the next by rotating the side that's
facing you and using the same algorithm
[Music]
rotate the front layer so that all
colors of the cube match and you're done
Congrats
you now know how to solve a classic 3x3
rubik's cube this method will work on
other types of 3x3 cubes too but the
real kicker is that it also helps solve
even more complex ones so just keep
practicing and you'll have it down in no
time did you manage to solve the cube
using this algorithm or maybe you have
your own way of doing it let me know
down in the comments if you learn
something